#summary References to related toolkits

= Related toolkits =

Here we briefly note some relevant related toolkits:

== TRENTOOL ==

[http://www.trentool.de/ TRENTOOL] is the Transfer Entropy Toolbox for the Fieldtrip data format, in Matlab. TRENTOOL is built from the ground up to perform effective network inference in brain imaging data. To do this, it uses the Transfer entropy on continuous data using Kraskov estimation. 

It is developed by my friends and collaborators [http://www.michael-wibral.de/ Michael Wibral], Raul Vicente et al. from the Brain Imaging Center Frankfurt, and is distributed under GPLv3.

== Java Partial Information Decomposition (JPID) toolkit ==

[https://github.com/jlizier/jpid JPID] implements early attempts to separately measure redundant and synergistic components of the conditional mutual information, an approach known as the _Partial Information Decomposition_ (see [http://arxiv.org/abs/1004.2515 1] and [http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.3440 2]).

It was developed by the author of JIDT (Joseph Lizier) in conjunction with Ben Flecker from Indiana University. In future, we may integrate its functionality in JIDT.

== simple-cluster ==

[https://github.com/exilef/simpler-cluster simple-cluster] is a framework for working with clusters managed with the Sun Grid Engine or Open Grid Scheduler, i.e. for which jobs are managed by the tools qsub and qstat. 
The framework uses Java-style properties files for passing parameters to the batch scripts.

The project is run by Felix Effenberger at Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences, Leipzig.
It is based upon the "Simple cluster jobs framework", which was written by the author of JIDT (Joseph Lizier).